# Overview

The proof-generation by the wallet sdk starts with Wallet SDK scanning the QR code on the Verifier website/app. This is worth mentioning that the proof-generation process  initiates on the Verifier side first with the Verifier requesting the wallet SDK to select the type of credential for which proof verification is required.

## Steps of Proof Generation 

1. Integrator selects the type of claim (for the credential) for which it seeks verification.

2. Verifier website/app displays the QR code depnding on the credential type selected by the Integrator. 

3. Integrator scans the QR code. 

4. The Verifier requests a valid proof of the the claim selected.

5. Before wallet sdk can generate aproof, it needs to authenticate itself first. Upon sucessfful authentication (a pin or biometrics). the sdk starts the process of generating a cryprographic proof to be prersented to the Verifier. The proof generted is based on zero-knowledge protocol, hence no private data of the user is shared, only the proof generated by the wallet sdk is shared with the Verifier.

6. The proof is sent to the Verifier that analyzes it for its authenticity and based on its analysis, verifies the proof.

7. The Verifier shows both the authorization request and the zero-knowldege proof information to the Integrator. 

8. As the verification is compelte, an Integrator can now use the services of the Verifier. For example, if the Verifier is a DAO, the Integrator, upon successful verification, becomes DAO's member and participate in the voting activities.  

**Note**: The demo Verifier that we have used can be found [here]( https://verifier.polygonid.me/)

